Adam Meyer Reflection
4/25/2023

For the software engineering databases final project, I created Invest Insights, a news site that provides recent stories on your favorite stock companies. The website also allows users to create their own profile, which I plan to add more functions after the end of the school year to add features such as adding your favorite companies. Due to time constraints, I was not able to finish every aspect that I originally intended, but I am very happy with the final product that was submitted.

For this project, I contributed heavily to the design and creation of the databases. For this, I created a relational database of 4 tables. The consist of a company table with the company name, stock abbreviation, CEO, found data, and location. Then I also have the stock news table that includes the company abbreviation, article title, publisher, writer, and date. Then I also have the users table which includes a username, password, and email, all of which can be updated. Lastly, I did design a favorites table, but is not utilized in the final project due to time constraints, there is hope that I will add more to it following graduation so that the user can add their favorite companies to this table. Additionally, I worked on the class functions so that our application would have CRUD functionality where you can add, a user, update a user, and delete a user, while also being able to call for other information in the tables. These functions were then used within the routes which helped the user move from page to page. Since Isaac had not had recent experience using Python, I had to create the backend functionalities while he worked on the front-end HTML. Lastly, I also worked on the CSS for the project so that it looked as I had envisioned.

The biggest challenge was the amount of time given since my other member had no recent experience using Python. This meant that he first had to learn how to read and understand HTML and Python. Therefore, to begin I had to help when he was stuck in certain areas. Additionally, this limited amount of time restricted the components that I wanted to add to the app, such as favorites and the company’s stock prices, and the corresponding 5-year, 1-year, 6-month, 1-month, and 5-day time series graph. For these decisions, we just had to decide to do what met the requirements and what would work. Additionally, there were times when parts of the project would not work as they were supposed to. This meant having to step back a rewrite a certain area.

The biggest lesson that I learned from this project is just how long these projects take and how complex everyday websites that we use are. For instance, when looking at a similar app like Robinhood, there are many routes and actions that a user can take. Because of this project, I am now able to understand how these websites are created and truly appreciate the design that the creators put into them.
